Remove publisher APIs (#3389)
dotnet/docs-aspire: docs/compatibility/9.3/remove-publisher-apis.md

---
title: "Breaking change - Removal of DockerComposePublisher, KubernetesPublisher, and AzurePublisher"
description: "Learn about the breaking change in .NET Aspire 9.3 where publisher APIs were removed in favor of new resource types."
ms.date: 5/12/2025
ai-usage: ai-assisted
ms.custom: https://github.com/dotnet/docs-aspire/issues/3373
---

# Removal of DockerComposePublisher, KubernetesPublisher, and AzurePublisher

> In .NET Aspire 9.3, the `AddDockerComposePublisher`, `AddKubernetesPublisher`, and `AddAzurePublisher` APIs were removed. These APIs are now replaced with new resource types that provide a more streamlined and flexible publishing experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In .NET Aspire 9.3, the `AddDockerComposePublisher`, `AddKubernetesPublisher`, and `AddAzurePublisher` APIs were removed. These APIs are now replaced with new resource types that provide a more composable experience.
```

## Version introduced

.NET Aspire 9.3

## Previous behavior

In .NET Aspire 9.2, the publisher API was introduced in preview, allowing the use of the following publishers:

- DockerCompose
- Kubernetes
- Azure

These publishers were added using the following methods:

- <xref:Aspire.Hosting.DockerComposePublisherExtensions.AddDockerComposePublisher*>
- <xref:Aspire.Hosting.KubernetesPublisherExtensions.AddKubernetesPublisher*>
- <xref:Aspire.Hosting.AzurePublisherExtensions.AddAzurePublisher*>

Multiple publishers could be added, and the `aspire publish` CLI command allowed users to select one for publishing.

## New behavior

In .NET Aspire 9.3, the publishers are now replaced with new resource types:

<!-- TODO: Add xrefs when available. -->

- `DockerEnvironmentResource`
- `KubernetesEnvironmentResource`

> - `AzureEnvironmentResource`

Reviewer: (Automatically added when you use any azure resource)

These resources include a `PublisherCallbackAnnotation` that defines their publishing behavior. The default publisher now automatically processes all resources with this annotation to generate assets. The `aspire publish` command no longer requires selecting a publisher; it uses the default publisher to handle all annotated resources.

Example:

```csharp

> builder.AddDockerComposeEnvironment(publisher =>

Reviewer: What is this callback? These don't exist. These APIs are adding a resource (which takes name).

Reviewer: See https://github.com/davidfowl/aspire-ai-chat-demo/compare/main...aspire-93#diff-4014fd4e71acb3b63bf6ad364854e492d2cac63cde9204d29c09ad3dfbcdf200

Author: I'll fix that...
